Once, the Order of the Stone defeated the Ender Dragon. In the present-day Jesse, Axel, Olivia and Reuben are preparing for the EnderCon building competition. The Ocelots attempt to sabotage their build, spooking Reuben. Jesse is attacked rescuing him but Petra saves them, who convinces Jesse to help her sell a Wither skull. The buyer, Ivor, tricks them and escapes with it. They pursue him and discover that Ivor will attack Gabriel using a Wither (later Wither Storm). The group tries to stop it, but are unsuccessful. They then head to Soren's lab, hoping that his Formidi-Bomb can destroy the Wither Storm, which Jesse futilely destroys.

The group, joined by Gabriel or Petra (depending on player choice) escape. After that, Ivor takes the group to his lab to enchant a weapon which destroys the Command Block. Jesse builds the enchanted weapon and destroys the command block and then the Wither Storm. The Order found a Flint and Steel, which Ivor reveals that the "Old Builders" created it and supposedly the "Eversource". Jesse, Ivor, Lukas, and Petra return to the temple and opens a portal. The group eventually finds the Eversource, but Aiden (later defeated by Jesse) steals it.

Jesse's group retrieve the Flint and Steel and try to return home through another portal, but find themselves in a portal filled corridor. While travelling between them, they arrive in a graveyard with an invite to a supposed party in a nearby mansion, in which they meet some Minecraft YouTubers. The "White Pumpkin" kills some of them through traps. Jesse and their companions discover that the culprit is Cassie. They later defeat her.

Jesse and their companions meet PAMA, a computer, which Jesse and Ivor escape from aided by Harper. She then takes them to her lab to retrieve something to deactivate PAMA, where Jesse frees Lukas/Petra before they are captured. Harper directs Jesse to PAMA's power source which they destroy. Back at the portal corridor, Harper reveals the Atlas which can help Jesse's group return home. The Old Builders unsuccessfully tried to stop them from getting it.